# What is marginal revenue? How is it related to total and average revenue?

Let's start by recalling what these terms actually means.

- **Total revenue** is referred to the total money made from selling products. It is the product of price times quantity sold. Do note that revenue is not the same as profit because revenue does not take into account the cost to make the products. Total revenue is usually referred to as **$TR$** in equations and you can obtain the total revenue by using the formula $TR = P \cdot Q$, where $P$ is the price the product was sold at, and $Q$ is the quantity sold.
- **Average revenue** tells us how much revenue a firm receives for the typical unit sold. In other word, it is the each unit brings for the total revenue received. To find the average revenue, use the formula $AR = \frac{TR}{Q}$, where $AR$ is the average revenue, $TR$ is the total revenue, and $Q$ is the quantity sold.
- **Marginal revenue** on the other hand, is the change in total revenue from an additional unit sold. Basically, the revenue a firm would gain if they were to sell one more unit of their product. The marginal revenue formula is $MR = \frac{\Delta TR}{\Delta Q}$, where $\Delta TR$ is the change in total revenue and can be calculated by deducting the final total revenue ($TR_f$) when one additional unit has been sold, with the initial total revenue ($TR_i$) before the sale or $\Delta TR = TR_f - TR_i$, and $\Delta Q$ is the change in quantity and is equal to the quantity sold after ($Q_f$) minus the quantity ($Q_i$) before selling the additional unit sold or $\Delta Q = Q_f - Q_i$.

For competitive firms, the average revenue and marginal revenue are often equal to the price set by the market. This is because, in a competitive market, firms are price takers, meaning that they sell their products at the price expected by the market. It is common for firms to have their marginal revenue the same as the market price, thus making the average revenue per unit sold also the same as the market price. In short, for competitive firms: $AR = MR = P$. 